---

Toward the Creation of Networks of Autonomous Vehicle Systems: A story (part I)


---

A Preliminary
Shall I now come to imagine a system, consisting of autonomous and independent  agents, which may perhaps bring great relief to the plethora of problems that challenge human mobility in the current era. It has not been long since the question of enhancing human mobility through technological means has come to light, beginning with the motorized vehicle and now leading with the vast emergence of autonomous vehicle development. One cannot help but wonder about the consequences for humanity that autonomous, and furthermore, intelligent transportation systems would bring, both from a philosophical and from a more technical perspective. Delving into the more technical aspect of these ideas, do I now come to explore and develop a proposition of what possibilities may exist if such systems, or network of systems, were to emerge en masse in our modern society. To forewarn, the following is all merely conjecture, a mere thought experiment as to the explore the nature and potential of networks autonomous vehicle systems, as to begin to open the possibilities and come to understand the impact that these ideas may have. As such, this story  is to be taken with "a grain of salt", as they say.


---

A Story
Perhaps what may be of great use to humanity, as a means to improve our mobility, and our physical reach in this world of ours, is a system of independent, intelligent, and autonomous agents, who are capable of quickly and efficiently traversing uncertain, erratic, and even treacherous environments, who concurrently have the capacity to see to  that no damage comes to the precious resources of which they may carry. A day may come to where I shall awaken, perform a usual morning ritual, and then proceed into entering such an agent, who forms a larger connected network of agents, that accomplish my desire to have fast and efficient mobility ease, all the while protecting the sanctity of my corporeal form and human life, with me not even being aware of what the agent must do to ensure this objective. Essentially, the agent must keep me alive without giving me the slightest indication of the difficulty of this task, while still managing to get me to my destination as quickly, and more importantly, as comfortably as possible. Here, one might imagine three broad systems at play, the local agent, the larger global network for which the agent actively participates, and the environment for which all of the agents (and humans) exist and interact. 


The Agent 
Upon entering this agent, do I become its central focus and a key influence in its directives for its highest level behaviors. The agent, in a sense, is an outer shell reflecting and realizing my desired actions and volition in the physical world, similar to what a body is in relation to a brain. 


The Network 




The Environment


A Conclusion
