---

On Decentralization: A First Thought


---

Preface
Currently, am I neither a proponent for centralization, or for decentralization, or even for pure distributed-ness for that matter, but merely am I an inquirer, searching for a solution to a problem. In essence, these architectures all appear to be means to accomplish an end, which begs the question, what are those ends ? Many arguments and debates have proliferated in regard to the the utility or superiority of centralized systems of society, versus some decentralized counterpart (insert references here…). There are no shortage of arguments  for Block chain finance, or governance, versus current banking institutions and government systems lead by central leadership and others. Perhaps what we may ask first before deciding which one is worth investing in versus the other, is what final goal to be accomplished? What ends justify any of these means ?
So then, why is it that one would desire to have trust placed in a set of rules than in a central authority ? why is that so much investment is going into is being poured into these technologies, when their centralized counterparts function significantly faster, more securely, and "better" overall ? In rules and mathematics we trust, but what advantage does this have versus the systems that are implemented today ? With all of failings and shortcomings associated with block chain technologies, it has been argued that any solution essentially boils down to proposing some centralization based method, defeating the purpose of having a decentralized system in the first place. So then, even if there are deficits in the centralized system, why not just strive to improve the currently, already working systems, or redesign them to better meet the desires the decentralization hopes to achieve, why introduce a new paradigm in the first place ?
Here we come to the crux of the issue, what is exactly the new paradigm that block chain and decentralization technologies present ? What is the point of all of this really ? 


---

A Thought
a difference between building from the works of others, and building from the underlying principles that others propose. Gaining information from a myriad of methods, or attempting the find the commonalities as to one day propose new methods. Divorcing the individual from the information, from the methodology, from the knowledge, and allow the knowledge to exist all on its own. Perhaps these are the principles for which a decentralized system hopes to uphold.
And so look what has happened here, an anonymous entity has proposed a new technology that may perhaps provide a means for the decentralization of trust, power, and information. Perhaps the proposed technology shall not work, perhaps the it shall always remain the case the individual shall be unknown, but these questions, I do not feel, are the important ones. I do not believe this is the true purpose of the "Blockchain" paper or any derivative work. The situation itself, from the appearance of an idea (with implementation) from a member of the community, that is open to all to explore, develop, and improve, I believe, truly embodies the core aspects for which such technology hopes to achieve. In times past, has there been great value in the "individual", and what the "individual" can bring to the table, and what capabilities the "individual" has toward moving humanity towards a "better" future. However, one must wonder that in these times of such advanced technology, that permits the communication and interaction of individuals who are "worlds" apart from one another instantly, is there perhaps a greater use that we could get from this ? May it perhaps be that the days of "individual achievement" are coming to a close, or at least taking a new form. That it is collaboration and building from fundamental principles, that humanity will achieve its greatest accomplishments. All that we are today, I cannot say were built on the backs of "great individuals" but was constructed over long periods of time from all of the individuals that make our species, and perhaps in the age of vast accessibility and availability (and intractability) of information, methodologies, and knowledge in general, shall it be a united effort that all must make so that humanity can carry forward into the next stage of our evolution, whatever that stage may be. To me, it is the idea of building from commonly established rules and principles that are open and "modifiable" by all, that is the most purposeful for this blockchain technology. In my view, it is perhaps not even important if blockchain, in its current form, succeeds at all, but as long as the principles and beliefs that it engenders are carried forth into all future endeavors, do I believe that some technology shall eventually come along and fulfill all that is hoped and desired for from the blockchain technology today. Do I find such power in the idea that anyone can propose any method, or idea and have that idea nurtured and cared for by the community as a whole. No longer must we go through the days of arduous effort alone, to develop an idea to maturity, such that it will stand the test of time, but can ideas now exist on their own, in the masses, for which these masses can grow them and allow these ideas to reach maturity (perhaps faster and better than if an individual were to develop the idea alone). Building from principles and looking past individual methodologies, I think may perhaps be one of the biggest ideas that "blockchain" promotes, and whatever form that this technology shall take in the future, I have little doubt that as long as it follows the core principles for which it was made to accomplish, shall it be a truly revolutionary and (perhaps infinitely) useful tool for us all.


 mitigating the intractability of information and knowledge 
establishing commonalities of practices and rules
understanding if perhaps collaboration of the community perhaps out weighs the contribution of any individual


and so what examples of a "blockchain" ledger do we have in the world. In my mind does "recorded history" come forth. As it is said "history is written by the victors" which could suggest that there are many histories that could have persistied at one time, but did the "victors" decide what the final recording shall be, and what should be rememebered by all of those to come. Interesestingly, might this record also be considered "living" as in scholars from times after are in constant contemplation and seek verification, long after the final manuscripts have been completed. There are times when history is corrected or mended, as it is hoped that the hsitory that actually occured, is the one that is recorded or remebered, but that is not always the case. From this do I believe that the "static-ness" that exists with the immutability distibuted ledger may not be the final solution, and furthermore is there a part of me that believes that is not even what is recorded that is of real value. It is of what the poeple believe, and more importantly, what the people can agree on (as to form a [solid] foundation from which to build upon) which is the real utility in this artifact. Beliefs change however, and new understandings "of the universe" may cause history to be interpreted in a different light as time progresses. It seems that intepretebility, along with commonality of understanding, and access to information, begin to form the pillars for which a technology for the purposes of achieving "decentralization" may be built. At least that is what I believe from what I have seen now. 

As always, do I say that this is a "living" idea, and of course is subject to change as it is revisted and re-thought in the days ahead. 


---

References
insert references here
