To lose oneself in a dream desired since youth, such beauty precipates from an act based in such purity. How can I not come to feel that direction toward such a fate is anything but good, or that anything less could possibly be acceptable. Such a difficulty does one find in the choice to accept this ideal, an ideal of unknown future, with the possibility of no reward. Amorphous is the nature of any dream, as it comes to shape as it enters into physical reality. How can any being, of good reason, or rational capacities, be amenable to live in dream ? Finally to reach a point where wanting is insufficient, but acting is the only means for which we can accept ourselves. Have I not the slightest doubt in my mind, that one day, shall all of the worry for a dream lost, be mended, as long as the course is stayed to follow the dream to its end. I am inclined to accept the beauty in this, I feel the pull of obligation, of agency, to breath life into such a tale.

Should not shall I live in a dream, but shall I give this dream life as to become reality. Making thoughts into tangible forms. Taking the abstract, and making it literal. Now it seems this is what I hope to achieve. Can I not afford to be divorced or far removed from reality, but also must I not reality be the sole dictator of my efforts and hope for times to come. 

There exists some supreme law of existence only as much as there exists people who are willing to accept and follow it. 

Must we keep our feet grounded, and 

years from now, shall we look back and wonder, was what became of us the truth that we once saw to come to pass ? and for this, do our reflections of today, give us means to predict the future we always hope one day to be realized ? Desire I never to know what "could" have been, but do I only hope to know what is. Never have such thungs confounded me so. What is that I am to do with this now ? Move forward, with only a weak and obscure visage of futures past in sight ? Have never I desired to be a commander for which any are to follow, but always it seems this choice continuously lingers over the mind, in a daunting and relentless motion as to force a choice from within. Not do I know what lay at the end of the wotld, but therein does lie a belief that it would be impossible not to at least try and discover the solution of this mystery for the sake of the self. Always a journey before a destination. Always some new beginning before the final end. Always may I wonder, and speak in perpetual uncertainty, and wonder still if any should even care. Have I seen life as far too precious to waste on the undesired, wanting for more, yet not willing to stretch the hand, with all of the pain that may come, as to grab that which is wanted greatest. And still do I feel a hasty decision is not much of an improvement toward this end. Wanting to much too soon or wanting too little too late, as always comes this balance eternal, woven into the deepest parts of the fabric of the universe. 

The brevity of this thought seeks to incite question on the nature of reflection. As there may come a time when true autonomy may come to be one such a desire. Shall our agents have the capacity to reflect ? And of the this reflection ? its qaulity ? or even its purpose ? 

--- 
Beginning with the abstract and philosophical questions as to the eventually bring down into the concrete and "literal" as to provide a viable solution to such questions.

---
Certainly others are not aware of one's own internal simulation, and so does the task of attempting to understand the internal simulations of others, clearly define one's own internal simulation, and mapping (translating) between the two fall upon the individual. 


---
A foundation for Decentralization ?
