Such a long day has it been, I have been doing whatever that it was that I needed to do, going where I needed to go, and seeing who I needed to see. Once all has been said and done, I reach my home, and do I sit and contemplate on the occurrences of the day. In the midst of contemplation, however, is it more than clear to me that I might perhaps be hungry and of course, I must attend to my physical needs, if I am to be able to continue to contemplate effectively, with any reasonable success. However, do I find myself in a predicament, it is absolutely freezing outside, and there is no doubt in my mind that a part of me would rather go hungry than try and bear the treacherous weather that awaits me, if I decide otherwise. Of course in these modern times do we have these food delivery services or other agents which could do the travelling for us. Soon do I realize, however, that I shall need to bear an entire, long and hard winter of living by such means, where access to my food is quite literally in the hands of another. I, being one of the poor and unfortunate souls who just did not find luck enough to be able to own a motor vehicle, must now live the prospect of outsourcing all of my mobility tasks to some third party. This is all well and fine, as the price of convenience is "priceless", but still I seem to ask myself is there a problem with this model ?
Delivery of groceries, or delivery of supplies, or delivery of any resource, must I accept that if I cannot do it myself, someone else must accomplish this for me, but is there any issue with this, truly ? Outsourcing work that one could not do individually built cloud systems, and human societies themselves are the epitome of … . So what is that I feel is wrong here ? What question do I seek to answer ? Before any work can begin, I am inclined to ask myself is my mobility a problem ? or are there problems with my mobility ? Are there problems with anyone's mobility ? Have I lived through natural disasters, where infrastructure was destroyed and difficulties on life were imposed, and would these difficulties be mitigated by some "advanced mobility system" in a way that has significance ? However, do I live in a place where the lack of such conveniences are just that, conveniences (as one may wonder at their necessity). For those who still live in regions to where the internet has never been known, advanced road and vehicle transport has never been widely adopted, or where electricity does not even flow, what does improved mobility mean to them, to those who have never had such advanced mobility to begin with ? What does it mean to those who have had once, improved mobility, but then lost such capabilities ? What does it mean to those who have advanced mobility, who are able to access it every single day, and must deal with the issues that it entails ? I suspect that questions (and respective answers) that I ponder go beyond the production of an autonomous vehicle, or a decentralized system of shifted trust, or an incentive mechanism protocol, or any particular (sub)system dealing with or related to autonomous agents. I first ask myself, what is the question that I desire to ask. What is the problem(s) that seems to hold constant each time I consider the struggles that I endure in traversing the environment around me, and furthermore what are the problems and struggles that I see others endure as I observe them traverse their environments ?
The Observations
Once, was made a trip consisting of three buses, a taxi, and a walk a little over thirty minutes, all of which spanned about fifteen hours in total, to reach a destination that was about forty-five minutes, by car, from my home. This decision was made as a result of deciding between cost and convenience, and I chose (significantly cheaper) cost (in retrospect, should convenience probably have been chosen ). Limited mobility has been a reality for which I have lived with for quite some time, but even so, has the limitation of mobility been far greater for those of ages past, where journeys of months, or even years (or lifetimes) have been made from one destination to the next (for various reasons), and even today, may there be peoples who still make such arduous journeys from time to time (as either to escape some undesirable situation, or for whatever reason that there may be). The limitation of mobility is a matter of perspective in some sense, 
But what really is this struggle that others may endure due to such lack of capable mobility means ? Has it only been for a minuscule part of our existence that humans have had the ability to travel vast distances in very little time. The nomads of times long since passed no longer need to travel to lands in the span of lifetimes. From my personal story and from that which I have seen of others who are in situations similar or "worse" than my own, do I come to see mobility with a bit of different light, other than a means to simply explore the possibilities of science or as an opportunity for business generation. The motor vehicle of the modern age still has not penetrated a good portion of the human population, and to some, it can be seen as only a luxury (or convenience) for those able to afford such things. Would I desire to think of the creation of an autonomous mobility agent as something a bit more than this however. Have I seen those go without (in terms of resources) as they were simply unable to travel to those resources. Are we not beings of mobility by our very (physical) nature ? It would seem so natural to have the longing to augment this capability that the many of us our endowed with from birth. So what now (through contemplation) is mobility to be and what significance is it to have ?
Beyond
*where the ramblings begin - be warned*
There are times when my mind begins to drift to the time of the beginning of exploration of the vast reaches of space shall begin. Clearly, humans, in our current form, are unable to achieve such means of exploration without the use of enhancing technologies. As I imagine these "flocks" of machines drift through the pureness of space, where they are self organizing and construct their own means of infrastructure wherever they travel, what would it mean for these agents to be concurrently "cognitive" ? As the years have gone by, and I have witnessed what our technology has become, and what others have proposed to yet still to be, I begin to wonder, if in eras to come, shall our machines (and technology in general) remain so "static". I initially had a thought in my mind that the evolution of technology shall be of the form: "Mechanical" to "Electrical" to "Cognitive" to "Biological", as we came to a better understanding of how to integrate these non organic components with our own physiological forms. I had always imagined that this progression would always lead to the production of some machine that was "human" (in pretty much every sense of the word). Now, my mind has begun to drift in a bit of a different direction, perhaps toward some generalization. Humans, and all other complex lifeforms, are mere examples of what biology and evolution has produced to solve some of the greatest challenges of the existing environment. One could imagine, however, a quite possible infinite number of solutions to such environmental challenges may exist, and is there not much reason for machines (or autonomous agents) to take on forms that are "human". Often do I return to the idea of "principles over methodology", and Humans (and all living things) are only one "method". And so what are these "principles" that I refer to ? What are the principles that one should use in order to gauge the utility, capability, and nature of these autonomous agents ? Such does it seem that any such principles (if they even exist in some concise, discrete form) would be generally dependent upon environment, as to give purpose or reason for the why an agent develops in a particular manner. However, are there principles that are environment agnostic ? Are there principles inherent in any autonomous agent (that has sufficient complexity) that may allow them to find "success" in any environment for which they may encounter ? Such is to me that this is the question that evolution seeks to answer (I, of course, have no idea [but I am interested in finding out]), and naturally do I tend to desire to develop theory and formalization of these "fundamental principles of life and evolution" and apply them to autonomous agents, in any form for which they may take. More than this, however, is it not the question of "the origin of [all] species" that seems most important to me, but do I ask what means do we have as to create new species that are "[almost] certain" to be "successful or optimal" in any environment for which they are placed. May it be that origins may be just some question of curiosity for the inquisitive mind, but a more interesting questions is of what "rules" govern these agents and are these rules "hard wired" or "predetermined" regardless of origins ? Immediately do the ideas of the "attractor" and "strange attractor" enter into my mind, when I ponder these things. Systems, for which a myriad of possibilities are possible and are all based on initial (environmental) conditions, and yet do these systems seem to consistently approach some primitive, underlying pattern. Does this imply some type of (latent) predictability (or means for control) ? Further research and exploration will give more clarity on these thoughts, but for now do I continue to wonder.
