---

Toward the Creation of Networks of Autonomous Vehicle Systems: A story (part I)
A narrative of the autonomous vehicle (AV) landscape


---

A Preliminary
Shall I now come to imagine a system, consisting of autonomous and independent  agents, which may perhaps bring great relief to the plethora of problems that challenge human mobility in the current era. It has not been long since the question of enhancing human mobility (in these modern times) through technological means has come to light, beginning with the motorized vehicle and now leading with the vast emergence of autonomous vehicle development. One cannot help but wonder about the consequences for humanity that autonomous vehicular technology, and furthermore, intelligent transportation systems in general would bring, both from a philosophical and from a technical perspective. Starting from the more technical (or rather tangible) aspect of these ideas, do I now come to imagine, explore and develop a proposition of what possibilities may exist if such systems, or network of systems, were to emerge en masse in our modern society. To forewarn, the following is all merely conjecture, a thought experiment as to the explore the nature and potential of networks autonomous vehicle systems, so as to begin to open the possibilities and come to an understanding of the impact that these ideas may have. As such, this story, and the ideas surrounding it, have very much yet to reach full maturity. As such, are these thoughts are to be taken with "a grain of salt", as they say. Furthermore, as one of the principle purposes of this post is to serve as a starting point for the exploration of the ideas representing the larger picture of autonomous vehicle (or agent) technologies, and many (if not all) of the topics and terms presented here will be discussed in much greater detail in future posts. 
*Note: The asterisk symbol '*' is used in this work to denote side topics or points of interest 
*In the next part of this post do I plan on addressing the larger picture from a more philosophic (and higher level) point of view. 


---

A Story
Introduction
Perhaps what may be of great use to humanity, as a means to improve our mobility, and our physical reach in this world of ours, is a system of independent, intelligent, and autonomous agents, who are capable of quickly and efficiently traversing uncertain, erratic, and even treacherous environments. Concurrently do these agents have the capacity to see to  that no damage comes to the precious resources of which they may carry, and that the desires of their patrons are met to full satisfaction. A day may come to where I shall awaken, perform a usual morning ritual, and then proceed into entering such an agent, who forms a larger connected network of agents, that meet my desires of having fast and efficient mobility with ease, all the while protecting the sanctity of my corporeal form and human life. Furthermore, shall I know not the difficulties in performing this task. Essentially, the agent must keep me alive and well, without giving the slightest indication of the great burdens of which this task may impose. All the while, must this agent manage still to get me to my destination as quickly, and more importantly, as comfortably as possible. Here, one might imagine three broad systems at play, as one considers the designing of such a system, namely, the local agent, the larger global network for which the agent actively participates, and the overall environment for which all of the agents (and humans) exist and interact. 
The Journey
Do I now begin to detail and (generally) analyze at what it would be like to make a single journey in the proposed autonomous agent. 
The Autonomous Agent
Upon entering this agent, do I become its central focus and a key influence in the directives for the agent's highest level behaviors. The agent, in a sense, is an outer shell reflecting and realizing the desired actions and volition in the physical world, of the individual within, similar to what a body is in relation to a brain. Eight key functionalities shall the agent be endowed with, namely Prediction, Learning, Simulation, Interaction, Regulation, Perception, Organization and Memory. From these seven capabilities, of course, stem many more functionalities, but at the highest level of the operation, do I imagine these eight abilities to be the fundamental properties that any autonomous agent shall require in order to meet the objectives that I mentioned previously. 
*Further Characteristics 
Some further characteristics for consideration when considering the design of this system. Characteristics include: Responsiveness (to dynamic, or static, environments), Adaptation, Transference (self governed information and knowledge transfer), Growth and Development (the capacity for change and [self]improvement), Metabolism (self energy management), Homeostasis (the point of internal equilibrium), Allostasis⁷  (the process of self regulation), Socialization (the process of learning internal models from surroundings). Many others no doubt exist, but for now, shall I limit the scope to these characteristics alone, and expand (or retract) as needed. 
So do I begin my journey inside of this mobile agent, in which  I shall construct a piece by piece layering  of compounding capabilities, that ensures the agent meets the required (and desired) objectives proposed earlier. At the end of each section are some key terms that may prove useful for further inspection into each subtopic (for later posts). 
Prediction
Has it been suggested that it is the anticipation of reward, and not the reward itself that facilitates enduring goal directed behavior¹. A predictive element exists here, as an agent who has a desire, beyond just reward, to exist in some ideal state, will now anticipate what such state will look like, and direct its behaviors accordingly. This is to say, if an intelligent agents have a tendency to predict and anticipate events and future states of the world around them, and perhaps this may have a significant on the contribution on the capacity for that agent to sustain long term goal directed behaviors. 
As I begin the first the leg of my journey, is the agent immediately and continuously predicting the state of the surrounding world. Prediction, combined with aspects of planning, forecasting, and very importantly, basic reasoning and logic, shall allow the agent to not only anticipate future world states, but shall allow the agent to ensure consistency between current and future states of the world as well.
*It may seem  that the greater act of cognition is encompassed by these elements (prediction, planning, reasoning), and recently has a resurgence of the idea of symbolic artificial intelligence and its uses in conjunction with deep reinforcement learning (and other approaches) has appeared, in order to give learning agents a sense of reasoning about the information of which they are learning. See [14, 15].
key terms: prediction, planning, forecasting, reasoning, *cognitive architecture, *spike neural networks, symbolic artificial intelligence¹⁴, deep reinforcement learning, (semi) Markov decision processing, hierarchical learning, artificial general intelligence, pattern recognition
*deep reinforcement learning, *(semi) Markov decision processing (semi - for time abstracted hierarchical learning), hierarchical learning are all in the context of learning mechanisms for planning and prediction (of optimal behavior/future action), and as such are mentioned here¹⁸
*Cognitive architectures


*Spike Neural Networks … See [37]


Learning
An expensive, yet important process of the agent, does the agent have the capacity to acquire new skills and understandings of the world during the journey, when endowed with the power to learn. Learning is of particular interest in gauging the effectiveness of the agents ability to traverse complex environments, and even more so interesting is the idea of "learning to learn" or meta-learning⁹ (which also has ties to "active learning" where the agent aims to take charge of its own learning experience). Learning, coupled with prediction, can now allow the agent to perform some semblance of error correction, and in general, agents can be "cognizant" or aware of their environments, which may further imply the individual agents may now have the basic capacity for adaptability and responsiveness to the environment.
key terms: experience (a priori information [see Kant for more]), knowledge acquisition, exploration, exploitation, play (first steps toward learning), self-play, operant conditioning, associative learning, habituation, active learning, meta-learning, anti-patterns
Simulation
Alone with prediction and learning, can the agent already achieve great flexibility and adequate response to an ever changing environment. Learning allows for eventual adaptability to new situations, and Prediction (along with planning and reasoning) allows for consistency checks and balances and anticipation of an uncertain world. However, there exists a bit of a gap between these functionalities. What exactly is the basis for prediction ? What is it that the agent seeks to learn ? or how is the agent able to gauge the quality of its learning ? A point of connection is necessary here to mend the disparities between these two, and really, all of the functionalities presented. This bridge (or an internal substrate in some ways), I believe, is simulation, which provides a representation of the external environment that is embedded within the agent. Now, does the agent from the beginning of the journey, possess such a representation of the world around it, and does the agent modify this model as the journey progresses. Within the "mind" of an autonomous, intelligent agent, does an internal representation, a model, of the current world state, and possible variations of this state exist. An intelligent agent with the capacity to simulate possible world configurations, has a basis or foundation for which it is able to make decisions, construct new information, learn from experience, and, in general, perform a host of actions necessary for the journey. Even more so, can a collection of agents induce some form of coordination, or coordinated simulation model, if they are all running similar or shared internal simulations. This is to say, everyone has the capacity to form a common and agreed upon point of view of the world around them, and can make collective decisions. Furthermore, is the concept of knowledge transfer possible, with internal simulation models, as agents now have some way to manifest abstract "thoughts" into concrete ideas, and then can they share those ideas (via language or some communication mechanism). 
Beyond just abstract representational model, does there also imply be a need for such  concrete or literal representations to exist in the first place. Abstract and high level simulated models may exist within the agent, but it may prove rather difficult or inefficient to share high level, or low structured information with other agents in this way. As such, may the agent require more solid models of internal state, and it is through these solid (or physical) representations (or symbols), can a basis of agreement be formed among other agents. None of these concepts are new for humans necessarily, but does one now come to wonder at what form these concepts may be begin to take if applied in the context of autonomous machines.
So it is now, as I travel within this agent, does this agent possess the capacity for representing the world internally. However, now must the agent find some means for interaction with its environment, and must it project its internal models (and my internal models for that matter) into the physical world. 
*As a side note, perhaps it may be of use to allow the agent some mechanism of reflection (or introspection) of its own internal state. A sort of mechanism for error correction and coding, and not just merely planning, but the agent may be able to do self refinement (and self mapping) of its own internal models, not necessarily contingent upon interaction, information, or influence from the external world. More of this is to be discussed in the section on Regulation.
key terms: internal modelling, representational thought³, hindsight, reflection, retrospection, simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM)⁴⁰, *Markov regime switching process, *mean field theory 
*Mean field theory involves the process of analyzing a complex model, by reducing (or "distilling") the complexity of the model into one that is more simplistic (an idea contrary to the second law of thermodynamics apparently). One may imagine that when there are many autonomous agents, each running their own, possibly very complex internal simulation models, may it be necessary to reduce the complex of these models into a simpler form, as to provide more sufficient means for model sharing (to achieve multi-agent consistency, consensus, etc…). See works [31] and [32] for more mean field theory concepts and details.
*Markov regime switching processes are models in which
Interaction
The agent, at this stage, is now capable of some level of cognition (prediction, planning, reasoning), learning, and internal model formation and representation through simulation. I believe these all to be fine, and for my journey within the agent, is the agent able to be (appropriately) responsive the environment. However, these capabilities seem a bit passive in nature, as the agent only is able "think" or "ponder" about the world, and learn from entities within it. Times may come still, when the agent may need to take action, and a mechanism to facilitate this sense of agency is now required. An agent with the capability to effect the environment around it is an agent who has the means to "put thought into action". The agent can make predictions, learn from experience, represent (or estimate) the current world state, and so naturally, the next step is the attempt for the agent to effect change in this world configuration at present. Interactions, whether they be physical in nature, or happen through (long distance) communications, gives the agent means for self assertion. It is a fact in our world, all of the actors do not necessarily work to achieve common goals and there exists strong misalignment of interests. An agent must deal with these issues through the enactment some form of force [see Hobbes] upon its environment. 
Now does exist an interesting choice (or set of choices) for the agent, namely, choices involved around the question of what the agent is to actually do in the world. How is it to effectively interact with everything around it, yet still considering the desires (and desired interactions) of the passenger(s) within ? Autonomy is one of the major goals in this setting, so must I, the rider, not be (or need not be) concerned with this dilemma of appropriate and meaningful interaction. This task falls completely on the agent.
 One may imagine a hierarchy or layering of topologies for which the agent can model and analyze interactions. One layer modelling physical and perceptual based (sensor based) interaction, another for communicative or information based interaction (vehicle to vehicle [V2V] communications, maybe combined with middleware [PubSub, OpenDDS] technologies, for instance), and in general may the agent be able to form series of layered graphical models representing each distinct level of interaction, with included connections (relationships/interactions) between other agents (graph nodes). Generalized methods for interaction among a group of agents and dynamic entities shall be discussed later, and so for now, is the focus solely upon interactions between the individual agent, and everything in the agent's immediate vicinity. 
So during my journey, is the agent capturing, analyzing, and enacting actions in the environment. One may imagine here, as from previous statements, some form of negotiation may also need to take place between the agent, and really, everything else that is dynamic in the environment. 
*A future post (hopefully, soon to come) will discuss this idea of (complex) agent interaction modelling in much greater detail
key terms: language, socialization, communication, formal grammar, universal grammar, agency, publisher subscriber (PubSub) models, Cooperative Games, Coalition Games, Bargaining Theory, *(Spectral) Graph Theory, correlation length²⁰
*When it comes to modelling interactions between different agents in a network like settings, may one naturally come to (Spectral) Graph Theory as to provide a means to accomplish such modelling. 
Regulation
Now, do I travel in an agent that has a wide range of capabilities and functionalities for which it can effectively predict its environment, perform some form of environmental analysis via simulation, learn from mistakes, and effect change in its environment through interaction, where all of these functionalities are directed toward the end desires and preferences of the passenger(s) contained within. Yet still it seems there is a vital component missing in order to fulfill the most fundamental requirement for any agent to be considered "autonomous". This requirement is, of course, the ability for the agent to self regulate and essentially "manage its own (internal) affairs". Self regulation processes in biological lifeforms is a rather complex topic, but from a high level view, might find that ideas of homeostasis (maintaining consistent internal equilibrium) and allostasis (the process of achieving such equilibrium) are common to all living organisms that practice internal bodily regulations and maintenance the consistent internal conditions.
So now, as I continue my journey, does at the very least, the agent attempt to maintain a balance of its various internal functions. Such functionalities could include *energy management, internal software (or hardware) self management, ensuring the stability and regularity of the agent's (and passenger's) physical state, and anything of the like in this regard. 
*As a note to energy management, it seems that this aspect of the agent should play have importance over all functionalities of the agent. Energy is one of the key concerns of any autonomous entity, as energy provides the very means to be autonomous. Though this topic is not now the current focus of this work, or even works to come, I do feel that the topic of developing mechanisms for efficient (self) energy management is (or at least shall be) of paramount concern as this idea matures into the future. Furthermore, some rather interesting applications may arise to the ends of energy management, such as the advent of the mobile charging station which may essential be a small autonomous vehicle that circulates in traffic and delivers energy to those autonomous agents in need of this resource. 
key terms: allostasis⁷, homeostasis, introspection, self reflection, self modification, maintenance, and enhancement, energy management, *magnetic road induction 
*A rather interesting area of research that I have come across is that of wireless (electric) vehicular charging via magnetic induction (see [34], [35] and [36]). Essentially, … 
Perception
Finally have I reached a point, that as  during my travels, the agent is (ideally) acting and performing in ways the satisfy the basic requirements of an autonomous, and (somewhat) intelligent, agent. However, how is that the  agent to gain any information about the world for which it persists ? The agent can not do very much without data, and though, through interaction (and self reflection) can the agent generate some of this required data. Still, this may not be sufficient, and the agent may need better means of sensing the world around it. This is the role of perception¹⁶, and this goes beyond just mere data collection. Perception does begin with the collection of raw data, but it also continues to the point of extracting information and attempting to begin to construction knowledge from such raw sensory data. Data (and efficient data management), being at the heart of almost all aspects of life today, is an important piece of the puzzle that the agent needs to solve.
Armed with the capacity of perception, can agents begin to actually accomplish any task. Data collected and processed feeds an running internal simulation, for which predictions are made, and learning and error coding are performed. Does the agent then take agent, as to drive its internal simulation to a more desirous state, a state which is dictating by the agents own agenda (of self regulation) and of the agenda of the passenger. 
*Biometric liveness detection and analysis is of particular interest, as it gives autonomous vehicles the means to detect and identify living things based on biological markers. Possible use cases could be that autonomous agents could produce more refined results when attempting to detect living creatures or these agents could be selectively about the users that they allow for manipulation. 
key terms: Computer Vision, LiDAR, SONAR, RADAR, Camera, Ultrasonic sensor, vision, audition, haptics, biometric liveness detection, (deep) neural networks,
Organization
Closer, does one inch to a fully (conceptually) developed autonomous agent, and now do we come to a rather interesting aspect of the agent. Though all of the functionalities are of great importance, does there come special interest, particularly, in the functionality of organization. The capacity of organization, in a sense, is an extension of the ability for agents to interact. Localized interactions, producing globalized (emergent) behaviors, in which structure (and hierarchy) arise from seemingly disjoint (or random) and  low level choices. Of all of the capabilities that the agent possesses at this point, does it seem that the capacity for organization, where essentially an agent extends its interactions (and volition) beyond itself into other agents, is my journey offered a unique  and powerful element. My interests and the interests of the agents (which I have assumed to be basically one and the same at this point, *though this may not always be the case [a point for later discussion]) , can now be, perhaps significantly, enhanced through the collective organization and coordination of multiple autonomous agents. Ideas of social cohesion and collective intelligence begin to emerge, and previous limitations that the agent may have faced when it was predicting, learning, simulating, regulating, acting (interacting)and perceiving in isolation, may no longer be insuperable. 
A point to be made here, however, is that up to this point it has been assumed that the agent has been able to perform all of the previous functionalities in an ideal manner. Natural technological faults, or adversarial-ism have been considered, but in practice, "bad" actors and "bad" technological implementations are very real challenges for which the agent is to overcome. Furthermore, there is a rather important assumption that I have implicitly been making that I shall now state. 
I imagine these autonomous agents to be, in the worst case, in a distributed setting, with respect to agent interaction and multi-agent organizational architecture. To be clearer, by distributed, I mean that the agents can truly independent of one another, and that communication and interactions can happen in a purely localized fashion, and so there may not always be points of central (or decentralized) communication (such as infrastructure [Road Side Units (RSUs), etc…]) for which agents can leverage as they move about the environment. The centralized agent setting, I assume would imply that the agents have some core point of communication and shared computation (a cloud like entity, common and shared by all mobile agents). The decentralized settings, I assume would apply a sort of "pseudo" centralization, where there exist hubs or scattered focal points for which several agents can interact, and share knowledge at a more regional level (a Fog network like entity (or entities)). Finally, it is my base assumption that agents initially act in a distributed system, where there is only strict localized, direct interaction among agents, making this setting those most stringent of them all (an edge like entity(or entities)). In a purely distributed settings are all agents "equal", and hierarchical (or any structured) organization might perhaps give eventual rise to the need for decentralization, or maybe some form of centralization (perhaps of the internal simulation agreement mechanism²¹).
key terms: hierarchy, cooperation, coordination, consensus, *collective intelligence, social evolution, *homophily, grouping behaviors and mechanisms, evolutionary biology, behavioral biology, Groupthink, social cohesion, cellular automata, emergent behavior, distributed systems, *truth discovery, *statistical mechanics³⁸, percolation theory, correlation length²⁰, the conservation of energy, *the conservation of information and searching 
*truth discovery is a field involving in finding the solutions to problems involving replicate, disparate information. So given multiple labels for some common data, coming from different sources, which of these sources is the one that provides the "true" label for the common data. What I mean by "common data" is that it is some given data assumed to have one true labeling, but many different sources provide alternate "more or less" true (or false) labels for this data, and truth discovery seeks to find which source provides the most "truthful" label.²⁵
*homophily describes the affinity individuals have toward other individuals of similar characteristics or traits, whose idea can be further captures with the phrase "birds of a feather flock together" (see [25, 26]). The interesting phenomenon can be seen in many specious, including those that exhibit grouping behavior, where individuals within a common specious may form sub groups and produce lines of distinctions as to separate individuals who may share some common trait, with individuals who do not posses such a trait. Has it been suggested that there may be some evolutionary benefit to such behavior (see [29]) and so perhaps it is worth considering how this behavior would affect the efficacy of the autonomous agent described, as it interacts and organizes with other agents. 
*Statistical mechanics, "probability theory applied to physical systems" (See [38] and further reading [18, 19]). As described in [38], statistical mechanics has applications in dealing with physical systems that have imperfect knowledge of initial conditions, state evolution, or systems that are sensitive to external change and also if there are large number of "particles" in the physical system. One could imagine how useful it would be to have a methodology for modelling, analyzing and performing computations for physical systems of autonomous agents. Statistical mechanics is a rather dense, yet very fascinating subject, and in a further post shall I go into much greater detail of this topic and its relation to modelling autonomous agents. 
*The conservation of information and searching
Memory
One of the most elusive parts of the human brain still, do we come to the last of our key agent functionalities. Do I even mention the topic of the human brain, is due to the reason that I have come to the feeling that there may be some lessons to gained from understanding how the human memory system deals with the vast amounts of information that permeates the human brain on a regular basis. Works such as [22] and [23] show an important aspect of the human memory system, which is our ability to selectively forget. The work of [24] is of particular interest in regards to the first steps toward developing some form of memory system for the agent. 
Currently, can I not say with any definiteness that I have any idea of how a memory system would function or be structured in the autonomous agent, and so do I enter into inquiry about possible design objectives and architectures that agent may require at the foundation to produce such functionality. At the very least, is the necessity for memory during my travels within the agent, still be accessible. During my journey so far, have I described the agent of having the functionalities of prediction, learning, simulation, regulation, interaction, perception and organization. So now, what final gap does memory aim to reconcile in the model of the agent ? It seems, that at its core, the agent cannot go very far in producing internal simulations, or doing anything else of any significant complexity, if it cannot have some capacity for retaining the data (in some form) brought into the internal system via perception, interaction, and self reflective behaviors. A trade-off appears to exist between time and space, as the space being the memory capacity, and the time being duration needed for computation when there is a lack of memory. Efficient memory systems (in conjunction with efficient algorithms) may provide better means for dealing with this trade-off, and so efficient memory management, may become an exercise in efficient data management, which further translates into: "getting the (absolute) most while doing the (absolute) least".
key terms: short term memory, long term memory, memorization, memoization, [pre-]wired (neuronal) circuits¹⁷, 
The Network 
Am I well on my way to my destination at this stage. The agent for which I temporarily reside, has ideally the capability to predict, plan, and forecast any negative (or positive) change in a mercurial environment. The agent can learn from its mistakes, and can correct itself and more so, can it improve itself by learning from entities around it (via some transfer learning mechanism for example). The agent continuously produces, modifies, and evolves internal simulations and models of the environment for which it exists, and this provides some means for "thought sharing", whether these thoughts be shared with other agents, or with humans (through some human interpret-able indication mechanisms). Does the agent promotes and project its will (and the will of its passenger) through interaction, and can the agent also perform self regulation, as to sustain itself during the journey. The agent has means to take in information and collect raw data from the environment via perception (and structured information can be collected via communicative interactions). Is the agent able to extend its very being into that of other agents via organization, and finally can all of these functionalities achieve some level of efficiency and "optimization" (in data processing) via the use of memory management (also can data be stored and saved for later of course). So now, as the agent traverses the environment, having the goal of ensuring the conditions of well-fare and desired objectives are met by the host contained within, shall the agent form a constituent part of a larger network, where each agent has the eight functionalities that I have described previously. Aspects of this network have already been addressed in the sections on interaction and organization, and so shall I only give brief overview of the key aspects of this network for which, in a similar way to the sections on the autonomous agent, I shall develop in a piece by piece manner.
Vehicle Communications 
As I have said previously, during my travels, is the agent in persistent communication with other agents around it (via VANET, 802.11p WAVE, DSRC³⁰). Information is continuously being passed in the form messages (wsm, bsm, etc…) from agent to agent, and where these might messages contain information about kinematics, sensor information, telematic and telemetry (for specialized agents [vehicles]) information, platooning (grouping, crowding) status, safety messages, advertisement or business messages, and other information. The foundation vehicle communication network, built from WAVE, DSRC and other technologies however, not only allow for  just simply the passing the of information between agents, but for the creation of more complex communication based behavior, such as markets or other distributed system applications. Furthermore, does this vehicle network not need be constrained to include communication between vehicles alone, but this network could ideally connect to many other networks (and devices), such as mobile ad hoc networks, or varying "internet of things" (or the internet in general) networking infrastructures via some specially designed on board unit (OBU), WAVE (and DSRC) compliant device, that allows for such capability. 
As a passenger, who need not be concerned with the details of my transportation experience, am I ideally open to perform a range of other tasks, whether this includes using some personal (internet, special network) connected device or performing some leisure task of another form (reading, writing, video games, etc…). Naturally does there arise a need to create infrastructures that meet the demand of this newly created market (in terms of connected devices [video gaming in-vehicle, phone applications or resource sharing, vehicle communication resource sharing market, etc…]), and hence do we come to distributed applications and systems. 
key terms: V2V communications, Edge Networks and Computing, Fog Networks and Computing, Middle-ware, OpenDDS, Gossip Protocols, Internet of Vehicles (IoV), Vehicle Ad Hoc Networks (VANET), 802.11p Wireless Access in Vehicular Environments (WAVE), Dedicated Short Range Communication (DSRC), *telematics and telemetry, wave short message (WSM), basic safety message (BSM), on board unit (OBU)
*Telematics and telemetry … 
Distributed Systems
As I use my personal, network connected device within the agent, can I also utilize the agents capability of networked communication, as to further enhance my own leisure (or work, for the more industrious passengers) experience. In this ad-hoc network settings, is there a need for infrastructure that is suitable to handle this particular network architecture, namely, a distributed (or decentralized) architecture. One can imagine though, that centralized, decentralized, and distributed applications would all be accessible in an ideal network of autonomous mobile agents, and each would provide utility in each unique case that the agent network would handle. For large, powerful computation capabilities, may a centralized infrastructural solution prove best, when the need arises for agents to process information at a level beyond their means, and the agents can do "off-device" computations via some this cloud (centralized) infrastructure. Perhaps more, may the agents, for the purposes of speed, desire to share, store and compute agents among a group of other agents local to them. In this fog (decentralized) settings, is this possible. The unique advantage (and challenge) that these mobile autonomous agents have over traditional networks and data infrastructures today, is that they are "mobile" (dynamic). These, essentially, mobile computing units have also the capacity for information storage (via their memory functionality discussed earlier), and applications such as computational offloading, distributed storage, direct data (generally any transferable resource) transaction, crowd sensing, safety applications, and so many more become open to the world through distributed (and decentralized) networking infrastructures.
 In actuality, can any of the previously application be realized through either centralized, decentralized, or distributed infrastructures, but there does exist trade-offs between time and space when it comes to choice using any particular infrastructure. Distributed (edge) infrastructures and systems may provide the fastest means for data transmittance and processing, and applications, more dependent on time, may have greater benefit in using these types of systems. Centralization, on the opposite end of the spectrum, may provide the most compute, analysis and processing power all confined within a single space, but may significant overhead arise in the transference of information between centralized entities and autonomous agents. Decentralized systems, may perhaps be seen as a mitigating bridge infrastructure, for certain applications, that are not necessarily time critical, and yet may not need powerful computational capability to operate successfully, may be leverage, or favor a decentralized system. 
So now, has the consideration of the architecture for a system, that can facilitate more complex communication behaviors between autonomous agents, been described in brief, and yet as I continue to use my personal "smart" device that leverages the agents communication functionality with an overlay distributed system, there is still another detail to be explored. The agent now provides for the passenger the means (in terms of infrastructure) to share and exchange data and other resources between other connected agents and devices, but would it not be nice if the agent could go a step further and begin to automate and make certain "smart" decisions concerning the nature of the resource exchanges themselves ? Do I speak now of an autonomous market system, that can exist on top of the communication and distributed system layers of the agent network. 
key terms: *Distributed Ledger Technologies (DLT), Blockchain, (De)centralization, distributed computing, networks and applications, Federated and Distributed Learning,* democratization⁴¹, overlay networks, *crowd sourcing, *crowd sensing, *vehicular social communities³⁹
*To make a quick comment on blockchain based distributed ledger technologies, in this work is there no real inclination to use (or not) such technologies in their current form, for the formation of market places or non centralized applications for autonomous agent networks. There are some ideal characteristics for such decentralized and distributed autonomous agent systems, the blockchain based systems satisfy, and there also some major drawbacks. As I have said previously, in the worst case scenario, is network of agents such that is distributed, and centralization (of communication or information interaction) may not always (physically) be possible, and perhaps some type of blockchain-esque system may be the only suitable solution in these settings, which, from my perspective, gives strong motivation for the  utility of blockchain based system in this story. A possible scenario is briefly described in the section: *On Roads
*Another note toward blockchain type technologies, with these technologies are there generally two components, the "physical" blockchain protocol (the distributed ledger) that stores information and the overlaying blockhain protocol operating on the ledger, where the protocol usually has at its minimum the capacity to perform applications of multi-participant (node) consensus and function as a public transaction ledger. So in this section on distributed systems am I more focused on the actually public ledger data-structure, and in the next section on market, is the emphasis more on the protocol and the application of being public transaction ledger. 
*Devices that are in the power and control of the people, is perhaps how one may think of the ideology surrounding democratization, as in regards to personal devices. See [41]
*Crowd sourcing and crowd sensing are applications involving 
*vehicular social communities
Markets
As I, and potentially many other users (passengers) in other agents, sit and enjoy the shared networking infrastructure provided by the autonomous agent(s), may there come a need to manage the exchange of information and resources between users (via the agents). A market, being a "medium for the exchange of goods and services"⁴², it would seem a reasonable desire to want to automate and "optimize" this process as much as possible. Might one imagine that the agents (and passengers within) are playing a game with one another (and so enters Game Theory [and theory of contracts]). Now is a game for where (rational) agents are attempting to make the best and most strategic decision as possible, where resources are limited, and where communication and interaction among agents locally matters greatly. 
key terms: Data Markets, Shared Economy¹⁹, *(Resource) Sharing as a Service, *Incentive Mechanism Design, Game Theory, *Cryptoeconomics, Theory of Contracts, Incomplete Contracts, Smart Contracts
*Incentive Mechanism Design 
*Cryptoeconomics, a still not yet well formed subject, …
*(Resource) Sharing as a Service - generalization of data as a service, software as a service, platform as a service, etc…
Formation Control


key terms: (Distributed)Model Predictive Control, Optimal Control Theory, Artificial potential functions, Attraction Repulsion Models, vehicle platooning, vehicle crowds, multi-agent formation control
*though I have not explicitly stated this at current point in thebut story, do I presume the four key functionalities of any network existing among autonomous agents includes: communication, distribution, formation (control), and market facilitation
The Environment


"Well am I on my way to reaching my destination. The autonomous agent, which makes my trip possible is operating … this agent is concurrently interacting with every other autonomous agent around it, and they cooperatively… One more component of this "concept" might yet to be considered… That is the environment… As the environment has affected and molded all life on earth, so to does it affect the autonomous agents [responsible for my mobility] … "
*Environments Simulations
key terms: *AgentSim, Procedural Generation, Computational Geometry, Tensors (Visualization), Numerical Methods, Game Engine, Discrete Event Simulation, 
*AgentSim - I shall save this one for a future post 
*An Aside
*The Body
To take a brief sidestep, An interesting suggestion given by [2], is that to have a successful master control mechanism (a brain), the controlling mechanism must have something to control in the first place. This is to say, if one so desires the design a "brain" or an agent with the capacity for artificial general intelligence, must one give the agent a "body" for which would give rise to a need for the master controller to begin with. From my perspective, this seems tantamount to providing an objective function or a control law, for say, an optimal controller. The controller requires a model of some kind, in order to provide such optimizations, and as suggested in [2], does this similar reasoning apply to the creation of agents of general artificial intelligence. The body, being the physical system or the "equation" to optimize, has an instantiation in the brain. By this I mean that the agent, who has a running internal simulation (or simulation of simulations) also keeps a model of the physical system for which it controls as part of its simulation. All of this is really to say that a master controller, that one may hope to achieve some level of general artificial intelligence, must have sufficient reason to do so, and this reason is motivated by the need to control a sufficiently complex body (or a body with complex functionalities that require complex control mechanisms).
*The Mind of AV (in brief)
Cognition, Behavior and Affect


Types of Reasoning and Planning


*Agent Simulation
How interesting would it be to produce simulations of autonomous agents in a more controlled setting, for which one could do testing, analysis, and carefully study, without the need for physical implementations immediately (or at all) ? By this I mean simulations in software, that can be viewed, analyzed and controlled by humans. I shall not say much here on this topic, but there shall definitely come a future post (hopefully soon) describing in more detail the simulation of autonomous agents. Do I imagine though, that the "mind" (the internal simulation model of the agent [all it can understand (graphically, symbolically), perceive, and "think"]) of the autonomous agent can be carefully crafted, monitored, and verified for satisfactory functionality by means of such a software simulation platform.
*Security and Privacy
"Private (and Secure) by Design"
Though it has not been addressed much here, the security and privacy aspect of the autonomous agent is one that cannot be ignored or considered lightly. Any given topic that I have touched upon so far in this article can easily (and some of them have) fill many pages of many books and other forms of literature, bu still do I give (or attempt to give) some (very) brief looks and insights into these topics. As to the topic of security and privacy of the network of autonomous agents (and the individual agents as well) does …
key terms: homomorphic encryption, differential privacy, cryptographic (decentralized) mixes, Zero-Knowledge Succinct Non-Interactive Argument of Knowledge (ZK-SNARK)
*On Roads
As a final component to the aside, do I wish to give a brief remark on the nature of roads and pathways. A phenomenon that I find fascinating (of the many things that bring great fascination to me in regard to autonomous agent technologies) is the idea of how roads and their creation. Once was it that animals and humans roamed vast uncharted lands, for whatever their reasons at the time, and did it so happen that these actors have the fortunate ability to leave tracks behind them. Did humans (and animals) tread the same path countless times, and as technologies through the ages enhance mobility, were humans able to create paths of more permanence. These paths allowed faster transport across them, and eventually did the modern road make its appearance. So what is all of this to mean in the context of the autonomous agent that I describe here ? May there come a time when humanity shall want the autonomous vehicles to create or lay the foundation for the infrastructure used to facilitate the mobility of the autonomous agents. In cases where road infrastructures have been destroyed, or are non existent to begin with, may there be a desire to have the autonomous agents coordinate and collectively create optimal routes and paths in such "uncharted" environments, where they shall begin to leave "tracks" down as for any subsequent autonomous agent to follow (and may there only be a purely distributed system available in these settings). The automated creation of vehicle infrastructure to complement the already existing autonomous vehicles (agents) that are to use them, is an application that I ponder at times, and furthermore, do all of the entities (the static infrastructure and the dynamic mobile agents) automatically construct, connect and coordinate themselves and are able to optimize their own natures as to best suit the environment, and their hosts (passengers, cargo). A truly "intelligent" and autonomous transportation system (or a system of transportation systems), is something that I can imagine for the (likely far) future given humanity's current direction.
key terms: intelligent infrastructure 
The Destination
Finally, do I now arrive at my destination, quietly preparing myself mentally for the rest of the day that lies ahead. I exit the agent, who so artfully ensured the … of my journey, and …


---

A Conclusion
What I have presented is by no means a complete picture, but it is more of a first step of attempting to write the story networked autonomous agents, and their impacts on human mobility. … 
Almost certainly shall I revisit this post (many times, I expect) and shall I perhaps rewrite this story as I come to a better understanding of the nature of the objectives and overall task at hand. As it stands now, these are my current views, thoughts, understandings and ideas on the story of AV (and what the landscape of AV shall be in years to come), and all of the work to follow shall be toward breathing life into these ideas. 


---

References
Sopolsky, Robert. "Robert Sapolsky: Are Humans Just Another Primate?", YouTube, 2 Mar. 2011, www.youtube.com/watch?v=YWZAL64E0DI.
Barrett, Lisa Feldman, Fridman, Lex. "MIT AGI: How the brain creates emotions (Lisa Feldman Barrett)", YouTube, 24 Feb. 2018, www.youtube.com/watch?v=qwsft6tmvBA&t=6s.
Feist, Gregory J. "The Psychology of Science and the Origins of the Scientific Mind". Yale University Press, 2008.
Cohen, Jonathan D et al. "Should I stay or should I go? How the human brain manages the trade-off between exploitation and exploration" Philosophical transactions of the Royal Society of London. Series B, Biological sciences vol. 362,1481 (2007): 933–42. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2430007/
Liu, Shaoshan, et al. "Creating Autonomous Vehicle Systems". Morgan Et Claypool, 2018.
Waitzkin, Josh. "The Art of Learning: a Journey in the Pursuit of Excellence". Free Spirit, 2008.
McEwen, Bruce S.. "Stress, adaptation, and disease. Allostasis and allostatic load." Annals of the New York Academy of Sciences 840 (1998): 33–44 .
Wenseleers, Tom & Gardner, Andy & R. Foster, Kevin. (2010). "Social evolution theory: A review of methods and approaches. Social Behaviour: Genes, Ecology and Evolution". 10.1017/CBO9780511781360.013.
Abraham A (2004) "Meta-Learning Evolutionary Artificial Neural Networks", Neurocomputing Journal, Elsevier Science, Netherlands, 56c, pp. 1–38
Schmidhuber, Jürgen (1987). "Evolutionary principles in self-referential learning, or on learning how to learn: the meta-meta-… hook" (PDF). Diploma Thesis, Tech. Univ. Munich. http://people.idsia.ch/~juergen/diploma1987ocr.pdf
Bekoff, Marc. "Social Play Behavior." BioScience, vol. 34, no. 4, 1984, pp. 228–233. JSTOR, www.jstor.org/stable/1309460.
Fridman, Lex. Derbinksy, Nate. "MIT AGI: Cognitive Architecture (Nate Derbinsky)".YouTube, YouTube, 20 Mar. 2018, https://youtu.be/bfO4EkoGh40
Fridman, Lex. Tenenbaum, Josh. "MIT AGI: Building machines that see, learn, and think like people (Josh Tenenbaum)".YouTube, YouTube, 8 Feb. 2018, https://youtu.be/7ROelYvo8f0
Marta Garnelo, Murray Shanahan, "Reconciling deep learning with symbolic artificial intelligence: representing objects and relations", Current Opinion in Behavioral Sciences, Volume 29, 2019, Pages 17–23, ISSN 2352–1546, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cobeha.2018.12.010. (http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2352154618301943)
CognitionX, Garnelo, Marta, CogX 2018 - "Symbolic Methods Coming Back". YouTube, YouTube, 12 June 2018, youtu.be/r8ZlKx2d2dA. https://youtu.be/r8ZlKx2d2dA
Malcolm Tatum (October 3, 2012). "What is Machine Perception"
Kolodkin, Alex L and Marc Tessier-Lavigne. "Mechanisms and molecules of neuronal wiring: a primer" Cold Spring Harbor perspectives in biology vol. 3,6 a001727. doi:10.1101/cshperspect.a001727
Stanford University, Precup, Doina, "Hierarchical reinforcement learning - Doina Precup", YouTube, YouTube, 16 Nov. 2018, youtu.be/e8b0yC6COJ8.
Kenton, Will. "Sharing Economy." Investopedia, Investopedia, 13 Dec. 2018, www.investopedia.com/terms/s/sharing-economy.asp.
Cavagna, Andrea & Cimarelli, Alessio & Giardina, Irene & Parisi, Giorgio & Santagati, Raffaele & Stefanini, Fabio & Viale, Massimiliano. (2010). "Scale-free correlations in starling flocks". Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America. 107. 11865–70. 10.1073/pnas.1005766107.
Buterin, Vitalik, "The Meaning of Decentralization", Medium, Feb 6, 2017, https://medium.com/@VitalikButerin/the-meaning-of-decentralization-a0c92b76a274
Timm, Ingo & Staab, Steffen & Siebers, Michael & Schon, Claudia & Schmid, Ute & Sauerwald, Kai & Reuter, Lukas & Ragni, Marco & Niederee, Claudia & Maus, Heiko & Kern-Isberner, Gabriele & Jilek, Christian & Friemann, Paulina & Eiter, Thomas & Dengel, Andreas & Dames, Hannah & Bock, Tanja & Berndt, Jan Ole & Beierle, Christoph. (2018). Intentional Forgetting in Artificial Intelligence Systems: Perspectives and Challenges. 10.1007/978–3–030–00111–7_30.
Levy, Andrew; Platt, Robert; Saenko, Kate, "Hierarchical Reinforcement Learning with Hindsight", eprint arXiv:1805.08180, May 2018, https://arxiv.org/abs/1805.08180
Derbinsky, Nate & Laird, John. (2012). Competence-preserving retention of learned knowledge in soar's working and procedural memories. Proceedings of the 11th International Conference on Cognitive Modeling, ICCM 2012. 205–210.
Li, Yaliang et al. "A Survey on Truth Discovery." SIGKDD Explorations 17 (2015): 1–16.
Retica, Aaron (10 December 2006). "Homophily". New York Times.
Fiore, A. T. and Donath, J. S. (2005). "Homophily in Online Dating: When Do You Like Someone Like Yourself?". MIT Media Lab.
Fu, Feng & Nowak, Martin & A Christakis, Nicholas & H Fowler, James. (2012). The Evolution of Homophily. Scientific reports. 2. 845. 10.1038/srep00845.
Soni, Aakash & Hu, Huosheng. (2018). "Formation Control for a Fleet of Autonomous Ground Vehicles: A Survey". Robotics. 7. 67. 10.3390/robotics7040067.
Kenney, John. (2011). "Dedicated Short-Range Communications (DSRC) Standards in the United States". Proceedings of the IEEE. 99. 1162–1182. 10.1109/JPROC.2011.2132790.
Yousefpour, A., and 7 colleagues 2018. "All One Needs to Know about Fog Computing and Related Edge Computing Paradigms: A Complete Survey". arXiv e-prints arXiv:1808.05283.
Whye Teh, Yee & Bapst, Victor & Czarnecki, Wojciech & Quan, John & Kirkpatrick, James & Hadsell, Raia & Heess, Nicolas & Pascanu, Razvan. (2017). "Distral: Robust Multitask Reinforcement Learning."
Kadanoff, L.P. J, "More is the Same; Phase Transitions and Mean Field Theories",Stat Phys (2009) 137: 777. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10955-009-9814-1
Ingram, Antony. "Magnetic Induction Technology: Charging Without Wires & Plugs." Green Car Reports, 12 Nov. 2010, www.greencarreports.com/news/1051457_magnetic-induction-technology-charging-without-wires-plugs#image=100329509.
Dahal, Neelima, "Wireless Energy Transfer Using Resonant Magnetic Induction for Electric Vehicle Charging Application" (2017). All Theses. 2614. 
https://tigerprints.clemson.edu/all_theses/2614
NeoPress, "Welcome To The Future: Wireless Charging Road For Electric Vehicles "YouTube, YouTube, 18 June 2017, https://youtu.be/dwoyhUnrKiU
Amirhossein Tavanaei, Masoud Ghodrati, Saeed Reza Kheradpisheh, Timothée Masquelier, Anthony Maida, "Deep learning in spiking neural networks", Neural Networks, Volume 111, 2019, Pages 47–63, ISSN 0893–6080, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neunet.2018.12.002. (http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0893608018303332)
Stanford, Susskind, Leonard, "Statistical Mechanics Lecture 1", YouTube, YouTube, 16 Apr. 2013, youtu.be/D1RzvXDXyqA.
Maaroufi, Saida & Pierre, Samuel. (2014). "Vehicular Social Systems: An Overview and A Performance Case Study". 10.1145/2656346.2656352.
H. Durrant-Whyte and T. Bailey, "Simultaneous localization and mapping: part I," in IEEE Robotics & Automation Magazine, vol. 13, no. 2, pp. 99–110, June 2006. doi: 10.1109/MRA.2006.1638022, URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=1638022&isnumber=34338
Brody P. and Pureswaran, V. (2014) "Device Democracy: Saving the Future of the Internet of Things," IBM. 
https://public.dhe.ibm.com/common/ssi/ecm/gb/en/gbe03620usen/GBE03620USEN.PDF
Kenton, Will. "Market." Investopedia, Investopedia, 10 Feb. 2019, www.investopedia.com/terms/m/market.asp.
Jentzsch, C. 2016. Decentralized Autonomous Organization to Automate Governance. Available from: https://github.com/slockit/DAO/tree/develop/paper



More References
Urban Mobility System Upgrade: How shared self-driving cars could change city traffic. https://www.itf-oecd.org/sites/default/files/docs/15cpb_self-drivingcars.pdf: International Transport Forum's Corporate Partnership Board. 2015.
Morteza Taiebat, Austin L. Brown, Hannah R. Safford, Shen Qu, and Ming Xu, "A Review on Energy, Environmental, and Sustainability Implications of Connected and Automated Vehicles, Environmental Science & Technology", 2018 52 (20), 11449–11465, DOI: 10.1021/acs.est.8b00127, https://pubs.acs.org/doi/abs/10.1021/acs.est.8b00127
https://hackernoon.com/in-a-world-where-the-majority-of-issues-stem-from-collective-action-problems-and-incentive-ed28bae3f589 -*An interesting comment chain for which some ideas of the importance of internal simulation consensus and clear translation stem*
Abrahams, M.; Colgan, P. (1985). "Risk of predation, hydrodynamic efficiency, and their influence on school structure". Environmental Biology of Fishes. 13 (3): 195–202. doi:10.1007/bf00000931.
Nachum, Ofir; Gu, Shixiang; Lee, Honglak; Levine, Sergey. "Data-Efficient Hierarchical Reinforcement Learning". NIPS 2018, eprint arXiv:1805.08296, https://arxiv.org/abs/1805.08296
McPherson, M.; Smith-Lovin, L.; Cook, J. M. (2001). "Birds of a Feather: Homophily in Social Networks". Annual Review of Sociology. 27: 415–444. doi:10.1146/annurev.soc.27.1.415.
Kang, Kai & Cong, Wang & Luo, Tao. (2016). Fog computing for vehicular Ad-hoc networks: Paradigms, scenarios, and issues. The Journal of China Universities of Posts and Telecommunications. 23. 56–96. 10.1016/S1005–8885(16)60021–3.
Mao, Yuyi & You, Changsheng & Zhang, Jun & Huang, Kaibin & B. Letaief, Khaled. (2017). Mobile Edge Computing: Survey and Research Outlook.





---

Further Reading
A. M. TURING; I. - "COMPUTING MACHINERY AND INTELLIGENCE, "Mind, Volume LIX, Issue 236, 1 October 1950, Pages 433–460, https://doi.org/10.1093/mind/LIX.236.433
Kant, Immanuel, et al. ""The Critique of Pure Reason"". Pantianos Classics, 2018.
Fagen, R. (1982). "Skill and flexibility in animal play behavior". Behavioral and Brain Sciences, 5(1), 162–162. doi:10.1017/S0140525X00011006
Hobbes, Thomas, White, Edward and Widger, David. "Leviathan". The Project Gutenberg EBook of Leviathan, 2013. https://www.gutenberg.org/files/3207/3207-h/3207-h.htm
Sutton, Richard and Barto, Andrew." Reinforcement Learning : An Introduction, 2nd Edition A Complete Draft", http://incompleteideas.net/book/bookdraft2017nov5.pdf
Hardt, Michael, and Antonio Negri. Empire. Braille Jymico Inc., 2011.
Jiang, Jaiqi, "AN INTRODUCTION TO SPECTRAL GRAPH THEORY", http://math.uchicago.edu/~may/REU2012/REUPapers/JiangJ.pdf
George Konidaris, "On the necessity of abstraction", Current Opinion in Behavioral Sciences, Volume 29, 2019, Pages 1–7, ISSN 2352–1546, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cobeha.2018.11.005. (http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2352154618302080)
Myerson, Roger B. "Optimal Auction Design." Mathematics of Operations Research, vol. 6, no. 1, 1981, pp. 58–73. JSTOR, www.jstor.org/stable/3689266.
BlockChannel, "A Crash Course in Mechanism Design for Cryptoeconomic Applications",  Medium, October 17, 2017, https://medium.com/blockchannel/a-crash-course-in-mechanism-design-for-cryptoeconomic-applications-a9f06ab6a976
Fine, Thomas Benjamin. "'Constructing Geometries for Group Control: Methods for Reasoning about Social Behaviors." Doctoral Thesis, Texas A & M University, 2015. - *A Point of consideration for modelling complex formation control*
Devavrat Shah, "Gossip Algorithms," in Gossip Algorithms , , now, 2009, pp.
keywords: {Electrical and Electronic Engineering},
W.D. Hamilton, The genetical evolution of social behaviour. I, Journal of Theoretical Biology, Volume 7, Issue 1, 1964, Pages 1–16, ISSN 0022–5193, https://doi.org/10.1016/0022-5193(64)90038-4. (http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/0022519364900384)
Bettisworth, C. and Burt, M. and Chachich, A. and Harrington, R. and Hassol, J. and Kim, A. and Lamoureux, K. and LaFrance-Linden, D. and Maloney, C. and Perlman, D. and others, "Status of the Dedicated Short-range Communications Technology and Applications: Report to Congress", 
TY - AU - Bettisworth, Caitlin AU - Burt, Matthew AU - Chachich, Alan AU - Harrington, Ryan AU - Hassol, Joshua AU - Kim, Anita AU - Lamoureux, Katie AU - LaFrance-Linden, Dawn AU - Maloney, Cynthia AU - Perlman, David AU - Ritter, Gary AU - Sloan, Suzanne M. AU - Wallischeck, Eric A2 - John A. Volpe, "Status of the dedicated short-range communications technology and applications : report to Congress", Tech Report FHWA-JPO-15–218, National Transportation Systems Center (U.S.) 2015–07–01, https://rosap.ntl.bts.gov/view/dot/3575
Maestre, José M., and Rudy R. Negenborn. Distributed Model Predictive Control Made Easy. SPRINGER, 2016.
Gibbs, Josiah Willard (1902). Elementary Principles in Statistical Mechanics. New York: Charles Scribner's Sons.
Kardar, Mehran. "Statistical Physics of Particles". Cambridge University Press, 2007. ISBN 9780521873420.
Schwabl, Franz. Statistical Mechanics. Springer, 2010.
Hart, Oliver. 2017. "Incomplete Contracts and Control." American Economic Review, 107 (7): 1731–52.DOI: 10.1257/aer.107.7.1731





---

Final Notes
*Note: The AgentSim simulation platform is currently under "active" development (and is very much in its infancy), and anyone interested the platform's development can check out the series of github repositories: https://github.com/dominic-eaton10?tab=repositories
*Note: the presented lists of references are only a (VERY) brief list of all supporting and relevant works from others, and the aim is only to give list, that is as concise as possible, for introducing what I feel to be the most immediately important (interesting) concepts that support this work in its current form. As I continue to make posts and go into more detail of many of these topics, will I also give many more detailed and relevant lists of references and further readings as each topic requires.


---

To be continued …
