Concerning Utility 

- An existence conditioned on utility of one's self ?
- Morality as a metric of productivity ? 
- What of the dangers of a possible capitilistic assumption that the right to live, and furthermore, the right to live well is one that must be earned, and is not inherent to the mere fact of being ?
- The individual as a center of rights and as a private property ? 
- on the ideal vs non-ideal "modes of existence", the class system of humanity, the high level problem of mobility which sits perhaps upon a deeper sociological issue, and the 2nd class [pedestrian] citizen... "The Walkers" (much akin to the book "the Uglies") ?

Side Thought: The monopoly as a natural side effect of capitalism...

Does existence assume itself to be a right that must be earned to the being that posseses this characteristic ?  Is the existence of a being (or agent) not independent of the choices made by such being ? Is this characteristic quantifiable, or should it be such ? In the the mind possesed by this individual, does there seem to be a danger lurking within the depths of this mode and manner of thinking, that it is such that existence and life are contigent upon "proper actions" taking during the time of which existing and life are occuring. As to the nature of "proper action" does there come even more conflict and possible dangers. That one must contribute in some pre-defined way and must do so effectively, may have two (or many) folded results, which may not always be desireable. "Nothing in the life is free" as a pervasive quote used throughout the English speaking world, lends itself to be an example of a certain mentality for which we may begin to examine as we move forward in more "progressive" ways. It is with great difficult that any entity (here I refer more specifically to humans) can overcome the burden or constrain of their own perceptions, as to allow themselves to be opened to new possiblities, without first having sufficient energy to perform such a task (not unlike the process of complexation in host-guest chemistry between two chemical agents, as one must either modify itself to fit to the other, or must modify the other to conform to itself [either process requiring the reaction catalyst to have sufficient energy to overcome the process]). The philosphy of older times has been filled with those who have pondered on what "rights" are inherent to humanity and all things that exist, does it seem natural as to wonder what symmetries may exist between all of these inquiries. 

From the human experience of this individual, may there not be the "right" of one individual to ask another individual to simply "change their perspectives" or "pre-conceived notions" of either the original individual or of anything in particular, even if it is believed that a "change of perspective" may in fact "help" or "improve" the latter individual in some manner. Perhaps this is an interest occurence within the realm of human existence, that each individual has the right to think and view themselves and others in their own (perhaps unique) way, and can these [virtual, simulated] views be effectively judged (by another) or measured some how ? Having the idea that humans can fall into "classes" (1st class, 2nd class, etc...) based on traits that they possess, or views that are held about them, may be part of a structuration process that allows an individual to further and more effeciently build the "model" of another in that indivuduals mind (internal simulation environment). This individual does not believe that there is any problem with having an internal simulation environment that holds models of all other, external agents and things as this is thought to be an important process in attempting to come to a common understanding of the external [simulation] environment of the agent, and forming the basis / foundation of study of the envinment and all contained within as well (again as to reach a consummate, comprehensive understanding). How flexible should / can these models be however ? The scientific mind may operate on a set of (ideally well defined) prescriptions for which upon application, a desired result can be (relatively) easily achieved, and many times do precriptions come from a process of incessant trial and error (and perhaps originate from a longing curiosity / debate). Might there exist then some form of "proper" existence, for which some set of ideal prescriptions can make this so ? The idea of "metric" might imply, from this individuals perspective, that there may exist an idea of "idea / good" and "non-ideal / bad" conditions for any element or object for which a metric may be applied. Metrics in the life of human which might include standardized test scores, job [or academic, etc...] performance, academic paper publication number, socio-economic status or wealth value, and any number of such measurements begins to make this individual wonder as to what exactly is being measured by these things ? Having metrics, or conditions, or "classes" or ideal / non-ideal modes of existence, or a strong need to have well-defined prescriptivist models as to characterisze "existence" itself, is this the point to be made here ? Superficially this is the initial inquiry, but shall time (hopefully) provide a clearer path as to what the true nature of the meaning of these things hold within themselves. 

on the quantifcication / qualifaction of life, existence, and maybe something more:
is metric not he origincation of meaning ? Is it appropriate to provide some measurement of the "faculty of life" as a means to generate a life with meaning ? Something that is not measured and / or observed, could this possibly have any utility in any form ? Are any of these things necessary to begin with ? meaning, osbervation, understanding of any kind... does life have its dependence on these occurences, a nd could it not persist without them ? Entering into states of greater sophistication, where an agent is able to [meta]question, synthesize, and challenge these ideas may lead one to wonder on the nature of what this process of structuration and self-imposed compexity seems to beget and belie.

On self-imposed constraint:
and what would it mean if an agent (or agents) would limit itself in its perceptions and external (as well as internal) views ? for what reason would an agent commit such an act ? actively and deliberately limiting its very existtence. what ends could justify thes means ? was there mention earlier in this work about the difficulties that may be faced when attempting to overcome the limits of ones own perception (of another [agent, for example]) and perhaps this may tie into the pricnple the principle of how as a system grows more complex in its nature, the agents which comprise the system may seem to undergo a "simplification". 
..."The augmentavist" [On augmentation]...

On sustainability and "The Durable":
Does the agent who authors this work now seek to find what it refers to as "The durable". Those [agents (human, technological, etc...)] who might last into the next great epoch of time as...


A dualitous ponderance: 
to concurrently be and not to be 

On Potentiality:
"All things have potential", and so may one come to wonder as to the origination of "potentiality". In the same thread of inquiry regarding a "valued existence" and furthermore a "meaningful existence", where does potentiality fit into this larger image ? How is potential to be described and from what perspective can it be most appropriately viewed, examined and studied ? The metric of potential could perhaps fit into the synthesis of a set of models, whose jobs are to effectively predict some future value or reward for an agent in a given environment. Beyond this, as one goes further into ruminations of the nature of potential, may it be that…


to seek someone with whom which I can pass time...
