me
Okay, so the reason as to why I keep attempting to summarize your process of finding suitable organic molecules to power organic cells is because I am thinking similar processes are at play in my flocking system, so namely, there are two methods involved in system formation and functionality: composability (composition) and mechanisms of change (reactions/interactions). So similarly as to how your system would begin with having light enter into it as to "catalyze" the generation process of energy, and then this generated energy would be propagated throughout your system as to "power' it up (which is possibly through the regularity of structure), there is also a need to overcome the barriers of disorder, so the system must receive and provide enough energy propagation in order to overcome the constant barrage of chaos and disorder brought about from its external environment. Similarly to this, am I thinking that, for example, with a crowd of birds (or bird-like machines), each "agent" would receive energy from its environment, which would allow individuals to overcome their personal disorder barriers, and generate enough work as to keep the agents mobile. However, a further step is necessary, these agents would then be using their energy to propagate information ( and other necessary resources) throughout the entire system (so birds propagate information to all other bird agents in a single flock). This, I think, is a form of collectively generated work, so work that is performed (in a distributed manner [of each bird agent]) by the entire system. A final goal of this generation/propagation process (where generation is possible via methods of composability, and propagation is possible via methods/mechanisms of change) is to drive the system to equilibrium / minimize entropy (so minimize the externally generated disorder of the surrounding environment) which shall allow the system to facilitate the creation of more complex interactions (so in my case, they could create better systems of wireless communication, because as I said before, wireless systems are still not yet that efficient when it comes to dynamically moving agents, as wireless communications requires stability in motion to be most effective, and also complex economic / game theoretic interactions I think will also become possible in this equilibrium state, which means agent will have the means to interact with one another as to optimally manage limited resources [and also may they be able to form contracts (formal and incomplete) with one another to do various things...] ). So really, I am attempting to connect this process of how you design molecules (so using methods that you know of composition [from computational methods and supramolecular chemistry principles]) that meet desired requirements and conditions, and then synthesize using known of reactions (so methods of change / interaction / reaction) and so similarly do I want to first find representations of this process in a more mathematical formalization so I can represent what it means, for example, these birds composing themselves together to form a larger, complex organism, and then figure out the mechanisms that will allow me to alter the composition of the system as to achieve desired configurations / states that put the system in equilibrium conditions, so I can further model more complex interactions (of advanced communications, edge / distributing computing, game theory, etc...).
So hopefully, this connects all of my seemingly random questions (but hopefully not too random now) as I am trying to develop a logical approach as to better go about accomplishing this task,
but this line of research is still very much in its nascent stages, which is why I am eliciting the help of many individuals who have more experience in the many fields that intersect for this project, and also why everything I say is still pretty much vague and nebulous right now.
Hopefully concreteness and refinement will come as I continue on further.
but does all of that make sense to you  ?
do you see feasibility or practicality in what I am attempting to do?

and I guess most importantly, do you see reason ?

Also, as a point of refinement, this is to say that each agent generates its own local "energy" and these energies propagate throughout the entire system (a property to be measured with something called "correlation length", implying the nature of "correlated energies" [or correlated work]) and so, agents are then tasked with minimizing the "excess" of this correlated energy (so optimize system [power/energy, I guess] efficiency), yet maximizing the correlation length (so maximizing the propagation of energy throughout the system).
and again, sorry for the spamming, this is kind of how I think by proposing a lot crazy stuff initially, and then refining them down into concise ideas and concepts...
So really, there are two bounds [at least for the energy / entropy of the system], upper and lower naturally, which are the minimum energy needed to overcome chaos and disorder, and the maximum bound as to minimize the required energy needed for the system to persist.
I am thinking then that: so this energy process essentially originates faculties (inherent capability of the agents / system), and these faculties then originate functionality (capabilities that the agents / system possesses), and from these functionalities can one hope to develop some semblance of a model for the system (so perform system identification ideally), and then can this whole processes be converted into an optimal control problem, where on upon identifying the system, optimal control mechanisms (so mechanisms of change, as methods of composability came from the identification process) ...
... optimal control mechanisms can be developed, as to "guide" the system into that of "self-organization",
I think this is similar to molecular self-assembly [but still have to read more into that]
but really do I hope to guide a system of such agents into optimal configurations / states of minimal entropy to facilitate complex interactions (which I guess is the concise, high level statement of my overall goals).
does that make sense ?

I am trying to refine, confirm, and rectify these initial intuitions, as so I can begin building up on them with the appropriate complexity.


manda 
Well, for me, it’s hard to imagine how you can program something so intricate as to effectively mimic complex systems as well as nature does it. And I see how you’re trying to draw inspiration from nature in how it’s able to create highly organized and particular architectures from a pool of simple building blocks for a specific function. If you can understand how this works in mathematical terms, you can turn it into code. The thing is, even in my own research, I don’t fully understand the entire process for making an OPV device. I only know a small part which is designing and synthesizing the molecules that go into one layer of the overall OPV device. There is also the processing of that device and the other layers that can be varied and assembled in different orders. All of which include technical details that are more physics related. So I think you’re doing the right thing in collaborating with many people from different fields, but I think it will be difficult because you will also need a pretty good understanding of all the processes of getting to the final product. OR maybe I’m just over complicating it and there’s actually a really simple correlation that I wouldn’t see unless I had a good understanding of how coding works.

I’m sending you a good review article on OPV devices. Just to make sure though, your email is domnic_eaton@yahoo.com, not dominic_eaton?


me
Yes, I completely agree, the processes must be well understood from getting from the initial states to the final product, and it is more likely that I am just oversimplifying the process. Before, I had mentioned this concept of "black box" machine learning, and the reason it is called "black box" is because these are learning models that can perform a wide variety of tasks that mimic various processes of nature, mainly in the realm of perception. For example, nueral networks are a type of machine learning models that have the ability to mimic various capabilities of human eyesight, so these models can do  intricate things like recognize faces, or other objects, they can label and separate out different types of objects in images, and can do other complex things that humans (and other animals) do naturally, and these models can do these things quite well. In reinforcement learning (another branch of machine learning separate from perception based methods), agents (machines) can learn how to control themselves to do things like walk or move around in any type of environment, much like how any baby mammal learns how to effectively move and navigate around its environment, without being explicitly told how "moving" or "walking" works. So really, I suppose, machine learning is the method or art of creating mathematical / programmable models that mimic the complexities of life and these models can do these tasks quite well, given the right conditions and parameters. The thing is, the exact process of how these models can use data from their environment to mimic such complex behaviors is not understood much at all, and this is one of the key concerns of using these methods, as they are truly "black box" . So what you are saying about understanding the process in its entirety, I quite agree with, and so one of the points is to try and find some "reconciliation factor" that can relate the fundamental processes and concepts that we know about [autonomous] machines and control with these black-box methods which will allow for more refined, standardized, and better understood models for creating complex systems. The idea of complex system theory, I would say, is to find commonalities of principles (so core principles) from which one could attempt to connect known "theoretical" results to less understood "learning [empirical]" results (so there is a "consistency gap" between theoretical and empirical models of complex systems), and this is more of the field / scope that I am working in. I am thinking that all of the detail associated with creating such "particular architectures" as you say, is although important, not quite the focus that I want to emphasize. I am thinking that, regardless of details in creating these systems, the core principles that guide the creation process itself must first be established, and so for I do not think / am not sure that this is the case in the current state of science and engineering (and of course I have to do quite a bit more research to really verify this 
 / know what this statement means). All and all I think that the answering the questions of creating complex systems from simple building blocks, and doing so at varying scales, is such that it should involve the use of core principles, and should not necessarily be done through the introduction of abundant detail (at least not in the beginning stages).
So this is why I am floating more or less in the realm of abstraction and vagueness currently, as I want to first summarize the entirety of the idea and outline the basic process from beginning to end of such systems using fundamental principles, as I feel from that, necessary and sufficient will naturally follow.


