Historia Quinquaginta 

Story #44
The histories written 
The last of our people decided to gather together and record our story as to ensure that we may still yet be preserved through all of the ages for which we may no longer have direct influence upon. This common theme of "the end" which seems to bind us all together, has driven ...




...

Story #12
Beta-2


...


Story #17
Escape
They had now been on the planet, which was completely engulfed in darkness, for what seemed like a millenia. The creatures were battering themselves against the glimmering field that contained them. The light of the beacon shot straight upward into the the black sky of the planet, and the stillness of the moment was unlike any other experienced before. We had been sitting around the beaconing device and none knew quite yet what to do, or should be done. This moment was one of those hauntiingly beautiful ones, on the edge of consummate chaos and desttruction, and yet did the tinge of the absolute calm envelop all of those... For such a long time had no words been exchanged. There seemed to be nothing to say, and perhaps this was for the best. We had traversed through all those things for which we knew not could have been surpassed to begin with, yet here we were, at the point of no return, seeking a refuge whose existence was dubious at best. "When will they come ?", flowed gracefully from Arias lips, and did K turn his head in reply. "At the end of it all", had he said, and then did he rise and stepped slowly toward the darkness around us, staring directly into the eyes of the wild beasts who had such desperation in achieving our perdition. The waiting continued for a very long period of time, and the peace that I felt here prompted me to begin refleclting on all of the things that had led to this moment of inevitability...



...



Story #3
A child of wind 
My eyes opened for the first time after many ages and I could feel the gentleness of the days breeze move itself through the shack. The radiant verdancy Which sparkled and glistened only served as a reminder of the peace that had swept my mind. I only knew the eternal at this point, and the crashes of "reality" were long since abandoned. What were we now, If not

